add aphp user story (#1536)
quarkusio/quarkusio.github.io: _posts/2022-09-03-aphp-user-story.adoc

---
layout: post

> title: 'https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkusio.github.io.git.'

Reviewer: This title is weird

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'Quarkus adoption by APHP (Assistance Publique des Hôpitaux de Paris)'
```

> date: 2021-09-13

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2022-09-05
```

Reviewer: Also better rename the file to this date

> date: 2022-09-05

Reviewer 2: Can you adjust the date to next Tuesday. Same for the filename?

If you can get the suggestions in by next Tuesday, I will publish it and post about it on our Twitter account.

tags: user-story

> synopsis: 'Quarkus adoption by APHP (Assistance Publique des Hôpitaux de Paris).'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> synopsis: 'Quarkus adoption by APHP (Assistance Publique des Hôpitaux de Paris).'

Reviewer: It would be nice to improve this description, like, what the reader would expect while reading this user store

> author: jean-Yves Terrien

Reviewer 2: The author should be added here: https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkusio.github.io/blob/develop/_data/authors.yaml

And then you can use the username to reference it in the `author` attribute.

---

:imagesdir: /assets/images/posts/quarkus-user-stories/aphp

image::aphp-logo-blue.png[]

== APHP

L'Assistance Publique - Hôpitaux de Paris, AP-HP is an internationally oriented university hospital center.

Some numbers (2020) : 

- 38 Hospitals
- 1 public healthcare service working 24/7
- 6,9 million patients

> - 100 000 health professional taking care of our patients - including nearly 12 200 doctors, 4000 interns, over 53 000 nurses, paramedic and social workers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- 100 000 health professionals taking care of our patients - including nearly 12 200 doctors, 4 000 interns, over 53 000 nurses, paramedic and social workers
```

> - Around 2 000 volunteers working with patients and their families and over 1400 helping with legal issues

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Around 2 000 volunteers working with patients and their families and over 1 400 helping with legal issues
```

- 3 500 research project in various fields, 650 active international patent portfolios
- In our staff one doctor out of five was formed directly by the AP-HP in collaboration with 7 medical schools.
- 34 schools, including 16  nurse training center (IFSI)

> - A 7.8 billions of euros budget

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A 7.8 billion euros budget
```

- Nearly 1,5 emergencies and over 2 million calls to the 15 (French emergency number)

> - round 38 000 births in our 13 maternities

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- around 38 000 births in our 13 maternities
```

- 315 000 surgical procedures
- 1 800 transplants
- 63 500 COVID patients
- 68 cooperation agreements in Asia, Middle East, Africa and South America

== DSN/DEV

Direction des Services Numériques/DEVeloppement

The DSN/DEV  is in charge of developing and maintaining various apps and specific tools. The IT department is as vast as the APHP itself. Dealing with every single medical specialty, it is sometimes difficult to find every needed tool on the market. That’s where the DSN/DEV intervene, creating ultra specialized micro apps. 

> With all these heterogeneous apps, the APHP faces multiple challenges in terms of communication. Once again it is the DSN/DEV job to ensure that every single part is able to communicate properly with each other, regardless of their nature and function. In doing so their job naturally requires mastery over the data flux and the ability to manipulate it in real time.

Reviewer 2: Not entirely sure but I would use `stream` over `flux`:
```suggestion
With all these heterogeneous apps, the APHP faces multiple challenges in terms of communication. Once again it is the DSN/DEV job to ensure that every single part is able to communicate properly with each other, regardless of their nature and function. In doing so their job naturally requires mastery over the data stream and the ability to manipulate it in real time.
```

== Our Chosen Technologies

> Historically a vast panel of technologies were used. In the last 10 years, our efforts were oriented toward unification. Today we are currently using only two languages : some PHP development projects for historical reasons and for the rest we are working with Java JEE/Angular.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Historically a vast panel of technologies were used. In the last 10 years, our efforts were oriented toward unification. Today we are currently using only two languages : some PHP development projects for historical reasons and for the rest we are working with Java EE/Angular.
```

> For that last part, our choices leaned toward Wildfly/Jboss. We chose to package our applications in a single deliverable containing front end and back end due to the small size of theres and to facilitate deployment. Our front end is rarely evolving, or to be more exact it evolves only when the back end is doing so. This allows our teams to quickly deploy new features. The size of our Information Network (hundreds of major apps and thousands of working instances) makes it so its global evolution is slow paced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For that last part, our choices leaned toward WildFly/JBoss. We chose to package our applications in a single deliverable containing front end and back end due to the small size and to facilitate deployment. Our front end is rarely evolving, or to be more exact it evolves only when the back end is doing so. This allows our teams to quickly deploy new features. The size of our Information Network (hundreds of major apps and thousands of working instances) makes it so its global evolution is slow paced.
```

> Using containers made us revise our choices. A key point in our decision was to keep working with technologies already mastered by our teams, and thus ensuring that any deployment or development of an app would’t imply a total start from scratch, but rather the use of preexisting mods. We wanted an evolution and not a revolution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using containers made us revise our choices. A key point in our decision was to keep working with technologies already mastered by our teams, and thus ensuring that any deployment or development of an app wouldn’t imply a total start from scratch, but rather the use of pre-existing mods. We wanted an evolution and not a revolution.
```

== Quarkus

> The DSN/DEV kept close attention to Quarkus while researching other technologies aswell. With the release 1.x of Quarkus, it became evident that it would become the tool that would take us in the right direction. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DSN/DEV kept close attention to Quarkus while researching other technologies as well. With the release 1.x of Quarkus, it became evident that it would become the tool that would take us in the right direction. 
```

> The DSN/DEV kept close attention to Quarkus while researching other technologies as well. With the release 1.x of Quarkus, it became evident that it would become the tool that would take us in the right direction. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The DSN/DEV kept close attention to Quarkus while researching other technologies as well. With the 1.x release of Quarkus, it became evident that it would become the tool that would take us in the right direction. 
```

> To manage the data flux between our apps, a flux supervisor tool was created, long before we chose to work with JEE. This tool was based on servlet, and over its 10 years of existence a heavy stratification took place. As it’s still performing properly, this app was chosen as our Quarkus test subject. We could try to develop a replacement and if we encountered any unexpected obstacle we could go back to the existing app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To manage the data flux between our apps, a flux supervisor tool was created, long before we chose to work with Java EE. This tool was based on the servlet specification, and over its 10 years of existence a heavy stratification took place. As it’s still performing properly, this app was chosen as our Quarkus test subject. We could try to develop a replacement and if we encountered any unexpected obstacle we could go back to the existing app.
```

> To manage the data flux between our apps, a flux supervisor tool was created, long before we chose to work with Java EE. This tool was based on the servlet specification, and over its 10 years of existence a heavy stratification took place. As it’s still performing properly, this app was chosen as our Quarkus test subject. We could try to develop a replacement and if we encountered any unexpected obstacle we could go back to the existing app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To manage the data stream between our apps, a stream supervisor tool was created, long before we chose to work with Java EE. This tool was based on the servlet specification, and over its 10 years of existence a heavy stratification took place. As it’s still performing properly, this app was chosen as our Quarkus test subject. We could try to develop a replacement and if we encountered any unexpected obstacle we could go back to the existing app.
```

Our wish was to capitalize on recurring elements. From experience, our teams are able to know what can be reused and where. For a long time, we developed in a modular fashion. Each project being an assembly of mods. We are used to externalizing these mods to independent projects.

> We rapidly managed to produce a prototype. Then a partner school was tasked to translate the two basic functions of this app from servlet to JEE/Angular. Once it was done, we needed to go from JEE/Angular to Quarkus/Angular. Which took only one week for one person, outside of their regular duties. Quarkus was indeed the perfect tool for the job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We rapidly managed to produce a prototype. Then a partner school was tasked to translate the two basic functions of this app from servlet to Java EE/Angular. Once it was done, we needed to go from Java EE/Angular to Quarkus/Angular. Which took only one week for one person, outside of their regular duties. Quarkus was indeed the perfect tool for the job.
```

Based on this experience, the project started. The supervising app was nothing more than a big mod cluster. Each mods providing its own function, it became simple to add any needed function by adding a new mod.

> We were forced to overcome some limitations such as Quarkus Panache preventing us from correctly accessing some of our Oracle database. But we manage quite easily to follow Quarkus evolutions and re adapt our code to take these evolution into account.

Reviewer: Were those limitations reported as Quarkus issues?

Author: Yes it has been reported. It was a multibase access under oracle with panache, some difficulties to use oracle with quarkus in reactive mode. Have the reactive driver for the base but liquibase requiring a classic driver.
quarks evolving in this direction we simply followed the evolutions.
So nothing very relevant in the life of the project.

> We were forced to overcome some limitations such as Quarkus Panache preventing us from correctly accessing some of our Oracle database. But we manage quite easily to follow Quarkus evolutions and re adapt our code to take these evolution into account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We were forced to overcome some limitations such as the Hibernate ORM with Panache extension preventing us from correctly accessing some of our Oracle database. But we managed quite easily to follow Quarkus evolutions and adapt our code to take these evolutions into account.
```

Reviewer 2: BTW, did you create an issue for the Panache issue with Oracle?

> Regarding  Quarkus-Quinoa, which resembles our Angular approach. Our 10-year-old packaging still performing perfectly and being totally automatized, made it so we chose to skip Quinoa.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regarding Quarkus-Quinoa, which resembles our Angular approach: Because our 10-year-old packaging is still performing perfectly and totally automatized, we chose to not use Quinoa.
```

One app is good, but the more the better. With all the experience accumulated, we created ready-to-be-used mods and methodologies. As of today we are able to fully develop and deploy an app within 2 weeks.

> That experience was the result of the work of the team in charge of supervising apps. The only thing left to do was to share this experience and use it as a base for all. This was done this year 2022. And to our satisfaction our JEE/Angular team adopted this new technology without any difficulty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That experience was the result of the work of the team in charge of supervising apps. The only thing left to do was to share this experience and use it as a base for all. This was done this year 2022. And to our satisfaction our Java EE/Angular team adopted this new technology without any difficulty.
```

> That experience was the result of the work of the team in charge of supervising apps. The only thing left to do was to share this experience and use it as a base for all. This was done this year 2022. And to our satisfaction our Java EE/Angular team adopted this new technology without any difficulty.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That experience was the result of the work of the team in charge of supervising apps. The only thing left to do was to share this experience and use it as a base for all. This was done during 2022. And to our satisfaction our Java EE/Angular team adopted this new technology without any difficulty.
```

== Conclusions

> Quarkus revealed itself as the perfect tool for our need and the future envisaged by the DSN/DEV. Our team capitalize on it and wish to expand its use to other projects. Quarkus is now a core tool and will continue to be for the foreseeable future

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Quarkus revealed itself as the perfect tool for our need and the future foreseen by the DSN/DEV. Our team capitalizes on it and wishes to expand its use to other projects. Quarkus is now a core tool for APHP and will continue to be so for the foreseeable future.
```
